Hello everyone and welcome to support vector machines project solutions lecture.
In this first solution's lecture series we're going to be getting the data cleaning it and using some
cheesy plot to libraries to perform exploratory data analysis.
Let's go ahead and jump to our studio to get started.
All right so here we are studio.
Before you begin you should make sure you have the loan underscored data that cxxviii file in your working
directory or know the whole path to the file We're going to go ahead and move that over to the right
and first thing you had to do was use read that see a Sweet's open the file and again you can always
use tab as a quick shortcut.
Once you've started typing the first few letters of your file name then let's go ahead and check out
the structure of loans
run that we take a quick glance at.
This looks like we have around 10000 observations of 14 variables and you can check out the notebook
for each of these columns represent.
But they're basically all just different factors that play into a customer's ability to pay back a loan
.
What we want to do next is look at the descriptions of the columns in The Notebook and convert the columns
that should be categorical data into categorical data using factor and those columns are the following
columns.
I'm going to go ahead and copy this from the solutions notebook so we don't spend the whole lot of time
just typing all of these out.
We'll make a new section called convert to cut to Oracle
and use factor in order to do that.
The columns we had it is for was the credit policy column.
The ink last six months column the delinquency over the past two years column the pub rech column and
then the not fully paid column.
Those were all integers when they really should have been factors other columns that are integers such
as your FICO score.
Those should stay as integers because it's a continuous value of your FICO score.
Once you've done that we can go ahead and begin our exploratory data analysis or EDK are going to go
ahead and run this source.
So we have everything working like it should.
I'm going to clear the cons. And begin by calling library.
As you plot 2.
And as always all the code and then typing out is available for you in the notebook.
The first diagram I want you to do for exploratory data analysis was create a histogram of Fika scores
colored by the not fully paid column.
Let's go ahead and try to do that.
I'm going to say P.L. are called G-G plot function pass in my loan's data frame.
And since I'm doing a histogram I just need one x value and I want a histogram of the Fikile scores
I'm going to pasan five go then I'm going to go ahead and add a new layer to this.
The histogram layer or the geometry of the histogram layer.
And I'm going to go ahead and specify that Phil should be by the not fully paid column.
And I always like specifying the outline color as well.
You don't have to do this totally up to you.
We'll go ahead and specify bins equal to 40 and Alpha equal to zero point five.
Now when we get a little bit of see through and then finally I'll add a theme to this.
Let's go ahead and say P.L. plus theme underscore b w and let's show P.L..
Let's go ahead and drag the plot when the over so we can see it fully.
All right go ahead and click zoom here.
We can see our histogram.
One other thing I did and the solutions notebook was I changed the actual coloring.
And the reason I changed the coloring was just intuitively I usually think of red as a negative or a
bad thing and blue or green as a good thing.
And since our column is not fully pay that means one is true.
It was not fully paid.
And right now that's in the cases as blue.
Let's go ahead and show you how you could change the color for that.
You can do that by just adding in this scale underscore Phil and we're going to do a manual fill because
we wanted the scale since there's only two colors here.
And then you just pass in an argument values and a vector of colors.
I'm just going to go ahead and put in green and then red
and now we have something that makes a little more sense as far as the color scheme to me at least personally
totally up to you as far as what color scheme you want to use.
Taking a quick look at this data we can see that as your FICO or basically your credit score goes higher
.
There's less likely hood that you're actually going to not fully pay your loan which makes sense as
your FICO score gets higher your credit score gets higher.
Many have better credit.
And these people are probably more responsible as far as paying back their loans.
And as your credit score starts to get lower you have a larger probability of actually not paying off
your loan.
And when I say probability I just mean looking at the actual historical counts.
Let's go ahead and move on by creating a bar plot of the purpose counts again colored by not fully paid
.
To go ahead and squeeze us over to the right.
I will clear the council and reassign people to G-G plots and loans.
And I want the aesthetic to be my X which is the factor of purpose and where using factor because this
is a bar plot and I'm going to go ahead and add a geometry level to that.
Geometers square bar and I want to color this again by the not fully paid column
and it was indicated in the note book they should set position equal to dodge.
That's technically optional but I believe the diagram is a little more readable when you put that position
.
Dodge which just basically puts the bars on right next to each other instead of stacked on top of each
other.
And then finally let's go ahead and add a theme to this and plot it out.
If we go in and click zoom here now we can see again the purpose or the factor of purpose versus the
count of people who did not fully pay versus fully paid.
This is kind of interesting to look at.
We can see right off the bat that that consolidation is by far the most popular reason people are actually
taking out these loans.
Also it looks like credit card which is also pretty similar to debt.
And then there's all other reasons it's another large reason for people actually taking out these loans
.
Let's go ahead and move along with our exploratory data analysis and create a scatterplot of Psycho
score versus the interest rates.
And hopefully we can see a trend that makes sense.
I'm going to go ahead and say people Geez you plot us in my loans data and I want the aesthetic.
Now I'm going to need an x and y since I'm doing it scatterplot I'll put interest rate on the x axis
and FICO score on the y axis and then I'm going to ask for geometer score points and I'll add a theme
to this
and then let's show the basic scatterplot moving this over and click and zoom.
This is our most basic scatterplot of Fikile versus your interest rate.
The note book asks Does this trend make sense.
If you look at the general trend this it looks like it starts to go down in final score as the interest
rate gets higher.
A better way of actually phrasing that is your interest rate comes up as your FICO score lowers and
that makes sense because as your credit score goes lower you'll probably be having to pay a higher interest
rate on those loans.
Now you could have kept playing around trying to color this data a little more so that it's just giving
you more information visually something you may have wanted to do is actually color this by not fully
paid versus fully paid.
We can go ahead and do that fight push up here.
I can say and GM underscore points put an aesthetic for color and then pass in the column not fully
paid.
And then we can also put in an alpha value so that we can see points stacked on top of each other a
little more clearly.
And let's show that new people for click zoom here that look something like this might be a little debatable
if this is more readable or give me more information.
But it's just something to explore.
That's it for the exploratory data analysis section of this project.
Let's go ahead and quickly review what we did before we move on to part 2 which is the actual training
and building of the model.
All we have to do in this case was read the C S V file and checking out the description of the columns
we converted some of the columns to categorical columns such as a credit policy column the Dilling would
see in the past few years column that fully paid column etc. and we could do that just by resetting
the column to the factor version of the column.
Then we went ahead and explored some plots for data through G.D. plot to an exploratory data analysis
.
We went ahead and check that your FICO score gets lower your interest rate is going to get higher than
we did a bar plot of the purpose of taking out the loans versus the actual count looks like that consolidation
and credit card are the most popular reasons for actually taking out a loan and things such as your
small business major purchases home improvement in education don't have as many people actually taking
out the loans for that reason without purpose.
And then we went ahead and just checked out a general accounts of the histogram of fikir scores and
we also were able to gather more information from this visualization by colouring it by they not fully
paid column.
And here it's quite clear again that as your FICO score goes higher you are more likely to find someone
that did fully pay off their loan versus as your FICO score gets lower.
There is more occurrences of people not fully paying off their loan.
All right that's it for this lecture.
I will see you at part two or we will actually begin to build a support vector machine a model.
Thanks everyone.
And it next lecture